.TH CDTOFLAC 1 "September 2022" "cdtoflac v0.3.1" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
cdtoflac \- Music CD digitization tool based on cdparanoia.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cdtoflac
[\fI\,OPTIONS\/\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Rips all the tracks from a CD and losslessly encodes them as FLACs.
.PP
\fBNote:\fR This script must be run with root privileges.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-C\fR, \fB\-\-chown\fR \fI\,USER[:GROUP]\/\fR
Change the owner and group of the output files after the encoding is finished.
.TP
\fB\-e\fR, \fB\-\-eject\fR
Eject the CD when finished.
.TP
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-device\fR \fI\,DEVICE\/\fR
Use \fI\,DEVICE\/\fR as the CD\-ROM drive. Default: \fI\,/dev/cdrom\/\fP.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Show help and quit.
.TP
\fB\-k\fR, \fB\-\-keep\fR
Keep WAV files after encoding to FLAC.
.TP
\fB\-o\fR, \fB\-\-output\fR \fI\,DIR\/\fR
Output the tracks to \fI\,DIR\/\fR. Defaults to the current working directory.
.TP
\fB\-P\fR, \fB\-\-parallel\fR \fI\,NUM\/\fR
Do up to \fI\,NUM\/\fR parallel FLAC encodes. Default: \fI\,5\/\fR.
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Show version and quit.
.SH "EXIT STATUSES"
.TP
\fB0\fR
Success.
.TP
\fB1\fR
Invalid invocation. Either an invalid or unrecognized argument was passed, or
the script was otherwise used incorrectly.
.TP
\fB\2\fR
Missing dependency.
.TP
\fB\1xx\fR
Internal error. Usually, this indicates that cdparanoia was not able to rip the
CD successfully. 'xx' indicates the internal error code.
.TP
\fB\200\fR
A bug occurred within the script.
.SH "KNOWN BUGS"
When using the \fB-C\fR or \fB--chown\fR option alongside the \fB-o\fR or
\fB--output\fR option, creating multiple nested directories leads to only the
deepest directory having the correct owner and group. All newly created parent
directories will be owned by the root user.
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Alpin H. Gencer <ah@gencer.us>.
.SH COPYRIGHT
This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program.  If not, see <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
cdparanoia(1), flac(1)
.PP
You can download a full copy of the source code at <https://github.com/ahgencer/cdtoflac>.
